Python is a high-level, object-oriented programming language that was created by Guido van Rossum. Because of its ease of use and adaptability, most newcomers to the development sector prefer Python as one of their initial languages to learn. It is also well-liked by the community and continues to grow in prominence. We will cover the fundamentals of Python as a programming language and how to get begun with it in this beginner’s guide to Python.

So, the next time you’re surfing through Google, enjoying reels or memes on Instagram, watching videos on YouTube, or just listening to your favorite songs on Spotify, you will realize that almost all of these platforms have been using Python. Let us take a look at a couple of uses of Python:

    Web Development
    Software Development
    Game Development
    AI & ML
    Data Analytics
    Desktop GUI

    Also Read | Top 12 Python Libraries For 2021

Why Learn Python?

Since Python is now the most popular programming language for allowing data science and machine learning applications, you should utilise it. Of course, Python has advantages; for example, it is faster than other programming languages, including R.

Python is, without a doubt, a fast compiler. You can broaden its uses beyond analytical research, analytical modeling, and statistical modeling because it is a Java-based programming language. You’ll be equipped to use Python to construct web applications that are directly connected to your analytical models in the background.

Python is also very straightforward to integrate with other programming languages and platforms. It offers a standard object-oriented programming design that makes transitioning to the analytics domain very simple for existing IT developers, analysts, and programmers. It offers strong documentation support as its coding style is object-oriented programming architecture.
Benefits Of Learning Python

    Python may be utilized to rapidly create prototypes owing to its ease of use and readability.
    Python is used by the majority of automation, data mining, and big data systems. This is due to the fact that it is the best language for general-purpose jobs.
    Python provides a much more efficient coding experience than languages such as C# and Java. When dealing with Python, seasoned developers are also more structured and productive.
    Even though you might not be a great programmer, Python is simple to understand. All it needs is a little effort and a lot of practice to get started with the language. This also makes it an excellent choice for multi-programmer and huge development teams.
    Django, a full and open source web application framework, is powered by Python. Frameworks, such as Ruby on Rails, can make the development process easier.
    Attributed to the reason that it is open source and community-produced, it has a large support base. A countless number of programmers use the language on a regular basis, and the language’s basic functionality is always being improved.

A Quick Beginner’s Guide To Python

Before getting started and taking the path to learning Python, let’s go and see this quick guide we have curated for you to start with the basics that will also help you stay motivated.
1. Understand your motivation to learn Python

It might seem like a small step but it will put all your other goals into alignment. Understanding where your interest lies will help you to make amazing decisions and progress in your chosen field. This will assist you in determining an end goal and a way to get there without getting bored time and again. As you start to give importance to all the options, you don’t need to pick out a particular project, only a general area of interest. Pick an area of interest from what we mentioned above like AI & ML, web development, data analytics, game development, and more.
2. Start with the basic syntax

This stage, however hard to start, cannot be skipped. Before diving deeper into your chosen field, you must first understand the fundamentals of Python syntax. You should spend as little time as possible on this because it isn’t particularly inspiring. We can’t stress enough how important it is to spend as much time as possible on basic syntax. The sooner you begin working on projects, the more quickly you will learn. Later on, if you get stuck, you may always go back to the syntax. You must only spend a few weeks on this stage, and not too much.
3. Develop Structured Projects

You can start developing projects by yourself once you’ve mastered the basic syntax. Projects are a fantastic method to learn since they allow you to put what you’ve learned into practice. It will be difficult to remember your understanding until you put it to use. Projects will help you stretch your abilities, gain new skills, and build a portfolio to present prospective employers.